---
title: December 2020
publish: blog/
template: comments.html
---

They say there is no prouder moment for a parent than the moment when their child takes the first step.

<div class=iframe-container>
    <iframe
        width="641"
        height="360"
        src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/IfNmUDC5Hu8"
        title="First avatar"
        frameborder="0"
        allow="picture-in-picture"
        allowfullscreen>
    </iframe>
</div>

<sup>First 3D avatar in Nim.</sup>

This scene was the sumn of two new modules: (1) the physics engine and (2) an entity component system (ECS). The first module established gravity in the scene, allowing the avatar to "fall" to the floor. The second module enabled navigation using the mouse.

The physics module wrapped AMD's [FEMFX](https://gpuopen.com/femfx/) library, which was a newly opensourced project at the time. I considered going with Nvidia's [PhysX](https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/drivers/physx/physx-9-19-0218-driver/) library initially, but after much research I concluded that I should go with a smaller library that could be easily contributed to if I ever needed to add a custom feature.

The ECS implementation was inspired by skypjack's amazing [series on ECS](https://skypjack.github.io/2019-02-14-ecs-baf-part-1/). I had made the decision to create a pure Nim implementation instead of wrapping his library to better take advantage of Nim's language features.

It was the development of the ECS that I conceptualized the engine's "implicit event system". The idea was that the engine should be able to notify user-defined systems of mutations to components without explicitly invoking any callback functions.

To illustrate, take two systems defined in the files `inputs.nim` and `players.nim`. An "event" in this context is the mutation of a component handled by a system, e.g. a `Position` component handled by the `inputs` system. This event can be seen by another system that also handles the `Position` component -- e.g. the `players` system -- simply by defining a callback `onMutate` that accepts a `Position` as its parameter.

```nim
# inputs.nim: system of inputs
proc onUpdate() =
  inputEntity.position = canvas.get3DMouseCoords() # get mouse coordinates
```

```nim
# players.nim: system of players
proc onMutate(position) = # automatically called from 'inputs.nim'
  playerEntity.position = position # move player to new location
```

The implementation of the ECS allowed me to scale the engine's functionality by enabling loose coupling between the engine's subsystems. It seemed that all that was needed from this point on was to implement the core systems of the engine.